the word of the Lord came to me again
saying what do you mean when you use
this proverb concerning the Land of
Israel saying the fathers have eaten
sour grapes and the children's teeth are
set on edge as I live says the Lord God
you shall no longer use this proverb in
Israel behold all souls are mine the
soul of the father as well as the soul
of the son is mine
the soul who sins shall die but if a man
is just and does what is lawful and
right if he has not eaten on the
mountains nor lifted up his eyes to the
idols of the house of Israel nor defiled
his neighbor's wife nor approached a
woman during her impurity if he has not
oppressed anyone but has restored to the
debtor his pledge has robbed no one by
violence but has given his bread to the
hungry and covered the naked with
clothing if he has not exactly usury nor
taken any increase but has withdrawn his
hand from iniquity and executed true
judgment between man and man if he has
walked in my statutes and kept my
judgments faithfully he is just he shall
surely
if he baguettes a son who is a robber or
a shedder of blood who does any of these
things and does none of those duties but
has eaten on the mountains or defiled
his neighbor's wife if he has oppressed
the poor and needy robbed by violence
not restored the pledge lifted his eyes
to the idols or committed abomination if
he has exact he'd usually or taken
increase shall he then live he shall not
live if he has done any of these
abominations he shall surely die his
blood shall be upon him if however he
beget s' a son who sees all the sins
which his father has done and considers
but does not do likewise who has not
eaten on the mountains nor lifted his
eyes to the idols of the house of Israel
nor defiled his neighbor's wife has not
oppressed anyone nor withheld a pledge
nor robbed by violence but has given his
bread to the hungry and covered the
naked with clothing who has withdrawn
his hand from the poor and not received
usury or increase but has executed my
judgments and walked in my statutes he
shall not die for the iniquity of his
father he shall surely live as for his
father because he cruelly oppressed
robbed his brother by violence and did
what is not good among his people behold
he shall die for his iniquity
yet you say why should the Sun not bear
the guilt of the father because the son
has done what is lawful and right and
has kept all my statutes and observed
then he shall surely live the soul who
sins shall die the son shall not bear
the guilt of the father nor the father
bear the guilt of the son the
righteousness of the righteous shall be
upon himself and the wickedness of the
wicked shall be upon himself but if a
wicked man turns from all his sins which
he has permitted keeps all my statutes
and does what is lawful and right he
shall surely live he shall not die none
of the transgressions which he has
committed shall be remembered against
him because of the righteousness which
he has done he shall live do I have any
pleasure at all that the wicked shall
die says the Lord God and not that he
should turn from his ways and live but
when a righteous man turns away from his
righteousness and commits iniquity and
does according to all the abominations
that the wicked man does shall he live
all the righteousness which he has done
shall not be remembered because of the
unfaithfulness of which he is guilty and
the sin which he has committed because
of them he shall die yet you say the way
of the Lord is not fair
here now Oh house of Israel is it not my
way which is fair and your ways which
are not fair when a righteous man turns
away from his righteousness commits
iniquity and dies in it
it is because of the iniquity which he
has done that he dies again when a
wicked man turns away from the
wickedness which he committed and does
what is lawful and right he preserves
himself alive because he considers and
turns away from all the transgressions
which he committed he shall surely live
he shall not die yet the house of Israel
says the way of the Lord is not fair o
house of Israel is it not my ways which
are fair and your ways which are not
fair therefore I will judge you O house
of Israel every one according to his
ways says the Lord God repent and turn
from all your transgressions
so that iniquity will not be your ruin
cast away from you all the
transgressions which you have committed
and get yourselves a new heart and a new
spirit for why should you die o house of
Israel for I have no pleasure in the
death of one who dies says the Lord God
therefore turn and live
[Music]